Codebook for Getting and Cleaning Data Course Project
=====================================================
This analysis relies on the following study:

## Original Study
Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Dataset
Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz, Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto.
Smartlab - Non Linear Complex Systems Laboratory
DITEN - Università degli Studi di Genova.
Via Opera Pia 11A, I-16145, Genoa, Italy.

## Brief summary of the original study
The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz.

## Description of tidy data set generated by analysis
The variables in this data set are arranged by the following:

* Activity - Includes the following: walking, walking upstairs, walking downstairs, sitting, standing, and laying
* Subject  - Numerical designations representing the subjects, ranging from 1 to 30.

The following are the features for which data is provided. For each, only the mean (mean) and standard deviation (std) data was taken out of the original data set, the training and test data sets were merged, and the data was further simplified by only providing the mean of each feature per Activity per Subject:

* tBodyAcc-XYZ
* tGravityAcc-XYZ
* tBodyAccJerk-XYZ
* tBodyGyro-XYZ
* tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ
* tBodyAccMag
* tGravityAccMag
* tBodyAccJerkMag
* tBodyGyroMag
* tBodyGyroJerkMag
* fBodyAcc-XYZ
* fBodyAccJerk-XYZ
* fBodyGyro-XYZ
* fBodyAccMag
* fBodyAccJerkMag
* fBodyGyroMag
* fBodyGyroJerkMag

as well as the following angle mean variables, performing the same simplification and sorting:

* angle(tBodyAccMean,gravity)
* angle(tBodyAccJerkMean),gravityMean)
* angle(tBodyGyroMean,gravityMean)
* angle(tBodyGyroJerkMean,gravityMean)
* angle(X,gravityMean)
* angle(Y,gravityMean)
* angle(Z,gravityMean)

## Brief summary of analysis
All of the above operations are performed in the run_analysis.R script. The files used in the run_analysis.R script are contained in a folder called "UCI HAR Dataset" in the working directory. The following files from the original study were used in this analysis:

* 'features_info.txt': Shows information about the variables used on the feature vector.
* 'features.txt': List of all features.
* 'activity_labels.txt': Links the class labels with their activity name.
* 'train/X_train.txt': Training set.
* 'train/y_train.txt': Training labels.
* 'test/X_test.txt': Test set.
* 'test/y_test.txt': Test labels.

The run_analysis.R does the following:

* Load all necessary data using read.table(). Default sep argument may be used since all breaks are white spaces or line breaks.
* Combine the data with the activity labels and subjects for both test and training sets, then merge them and rename the columns to terms in the features document.
* Create a vector of indices from the preloaded features vector that contain the terms "mean" and "std". Add 2 to account for Activity and Subject columns. Subset the columns of the main data set with those indices.
* Replace the activity labels with the actual names of activities.
* Clear up memory by removing all but the clean dataset.
* Split the clean data by activity and subject and calculate mean for each column for each member of the split data by looping through the elements of the split list.
* Fix up the column and row names, remove unnecessary data.
* Write comma delimited txt files of the tidy data sets to the working directory